#summary README
#labels ssl,tls,sslcipherscanner

= Introduction =

SSL-Enum is a standalone SSL/TLS scanner.

There are a number of SSL cipher enumeration tools but (that I've seen) rely on OpenSSL or SSLeay and are not very flexible.

SSL-Enum hopes to become a flexible, standalone SSL inspection tool.

Please be aware the tools is still very much BETA and contributing is welcome and encouraged. 

Please be aware the tools is still very much BETA and contributing is welcome and encouraged.

= Portability =
ssl-enum should compile on any ANSI C compatible system. It has compiled and run on the following platforms:
   * Linux 2.6.15-23-386
   * Windows Vista Home Edition (with CYGWIN)


= Installation = 
$ make

= Usage = 
$ ./ssl-enum -s 127.0.0.1 -p 443 (opt: -vf)
    -v 1,2
        Level 1 debugging will print SSL server errors if available.
    -v 3
        Level 2 debugging will print read and write data.
    -v 4
        Level 4 allows SSLv3 packet decodes
    -f filename
        Allows alternate ciphers file. The default is cipher-list.txt.
    -k fast SSL/TLS sweep
        Some SSL/TLS services don't respond with errors so we assume its
        an UNSUPPORTED cipher. To complicate matters, some Apache web servers
        respond with an ASCII error text message so we can't check if we are
        really talking to an SSL/TLS service.

        So we'll use a cautious flag. If the flag is set, we'll stop scanning,
        if the returned data does not match standard SSL/TLS data.

        Note: The default will be to scan all ciphers in the chosen/default 
        ciphers file.

=SSL Resumption Check=
If SSL sessions are disabled, every connection (images, CSS and all) will require re-negotiation of SSL Ciphers and Certificates. SSL sessions can greatly reduce bandwidth and memory requirements.

The following output demonstrates an SSL service with SSL sessions CORRECTLY configured:
./ssl-enum -s IP -p 443 -v4
--snip--
SESSION LEN: 32
SESSIONID: 2c3d8c8f6fb747a779fcedfe14129b8bd8605e72f75a6c64b728e81c01d64f04
--snip--

The following output demonstrates an SSL service with SSL sessions INCORRECTLY configured:
./ssl-enum -s IP -p 443 -v4
--snip--
SESSION LEN: 0
SESSIONID: NULL
--snip--